src/content/post/added-utterances-comments-for-the-articles/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Added Utterances comments for the posts"
publishDate: 2023-01-15
description: "As a way to communicate with each other, comments on posts have been activated"
tags: [blog, blogging, comments, privacy, open-source]
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";

## I am excited to announce that comments have been enabled on the posts!

One of the main features I like most about blogs is being able to **comment** and **ask questions**. After considering several options I have decided that [Utterances](https://utteranc.es/) is the best option and the one I like the most for this blog.

Utterances is a **lightweight** and **fast** commenting system that integrates with [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/features/issues). After looking at other options I believe that Utterances is a great choice for the blog and want to share why I consider it better than other commenting systems like [Disqus](https://disqus.com/) and [Cactus Comments](https://cactus.chat/).

## Why I think Utterances is better than other commenting systems

1. **Privacy and Data Ownership**: for me, it's really important to keep full control over my data and visitors' data, and Utterances doesn't track the visitors and it doesn't store any personal data, unlike other alternatives like [Disqus](https://disqus.com/) and [Cactus Comments](https://cactus.chat/).

2. **Speed and Performance**: it loads comments asynchronously and it doesn't slow down the blog, so it is lightweight and fast.

3. **Integration with GitHub Issues**: it is fully integrated with GitHub Issues, meaning that comments are stored in a GitHub repository, and this allows to easily moderate and manage comments.

4. **Open Source**: it is open-source software, meaning that you can see exactly how it works and make changes to it if needed.

5. **Easy to set up**: finally, it is easy to set up and it only requires a small amount of code to add comments to the blog.

I hope you enjoy the new commenting system and I look forward to hearing your thoughts and feedback on the posts.

First to comment wins a prize!

Commit message:

Update Utterances post after the migration to Astro

src/content/post/added-utterances-comments-for-the-articles/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Added Utterances comments for the posts"
publishDate: 2023-01-15
updatedDate: "2024-01-02"
description: "As a way to communicate with each other, comments on posts have been activated"
tags: [blog, blogging, comments, privacy, open-source]
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";

> In January 2024 this commenting system is obsolete due to the migration to Astro. For didactic and historical purposes the current post is left.

## I am excited to announce that comments have been enabled on the posts!

One of the main features I like most about blogs is being able to **comment** and **ask questions**. After considering several options I have decided that [Utterances](https://utteranc.es/) is the best option and the one I like the most for this blog.

Utterances is a **lightweight** and **fast** commenting system that integrates with [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/features/issues). After looking at other options I believe that Utterances is a great choice for the blog and want to share why I consider it better than other commenting systems like [Disqus](https://disqus.com/) and [Cactus Comments](https://cactus.chat/).

## Why I think Utterances is better than other commenting systems

1. **Privacy and Data Ownership**: for me, it's really important to keep full control over my data and visitors' data, and Utterances doesn't track the visitors and it doesn't store any personal data, unlike other alternatives like [Disqus](https://disqus.com/) and [Cactus Comments](https://cactus.chat/).

2. **Speed and Performance**: it loads comments asynchronously and it doesn't slow down the blog, so it is lightweight and fast.

3. **Integration with GitHub Issues**: it is fully integrated with GitHub Issues, meaning that comments are stored in a GitHub repository, and this allows to easily moderate and manage comments.

4. **Open Source**: it is open-source software, meaning that you can see exactly how it works and make changes to it if needed.

5. **Easy to set up**: finally, it is easy to set up and it only requires a small amount of code to add comments to the blog.

I hope you enjoy the new commenting system and I look forward to hearing your thoughts and feedback on the posts.

First to comment wins a prize!
